welcome everyone to this week's IPL de
sync meaning it's April the 6th 2020 and
as every week we talk about the stuff
that we've done in the past week and
planned to do and then discuss any
agenda items we might have and also
please put your name on the attendees
lists although most people are there
already because I've copied from the
last week so I start with myself I
actually couldn't recall what I've
actually done last week but one of the
things was that I still did Matthew
formats stuff or is he was a week before
but now things were merged and this
leads to the proper block API which I
will be working on this week and I've
also as discussions came up on rust I
thought this stuff and that I basically
promised that this week I will get some
code working with the block API so
people concede and yes how it works
because even the issue last I thought
the Eastside is outdated and yeah and
they're still a PR open for rust CID but
my main review a fruitless really busy
with five coin and I don't want to back
it's not super urgent so I just wait for
him to have time to review it but it
also probably had habits in this week or
next week and then just additional note
that I will be off on Friday and Monday
yeah that's all I have
next on my list it's Michael
yeah sorry checking
yeah mute yeah so um I did a lot of
major refactoring work on the the data
processing stuff that I've been doing
the good news is that like I broke
through a bunch of the limitations that
we had in lambda and in our whole
pipeline so now we in processing data
each bucket at around six gigabits a
second and then creating car files at
like 10 to 14 gigabytes a second and
generated kompy's for them at like 20
plus gigabytes a second just using like
massive amounts of concurrency um we can
finally push like around 3000
concurrently in lambda once you go above
3000 you start hit other AWS
infrastructure like rate limits and
abuse detection mechanisms they're like
very undocumented and not changeable so
even though our limits technically ten
thousand we can't really practically do
that much um
very bad things start to happen so
anyway that's awesome
that's going to finish out pretty soon
and we'll have a lot of I peeled the raw
data yeah by the end of this we'll have
like petabytes of my field data we want
to do anything like that and then you
know over the weekend and on our day off
I spent a lot of more time on dagby the
thing that might be interesting to you
all of this graph store interface and
talked about for a while like something
it's not just storing blocks but also
trying to understand some of the graph
information like doesn't have a complete
graph and what are the links that it can
do that a GC is I basically built that
somewhat to the specifications that
we've been talking about and I now also
have a replication between two stores
that have that graph information so you
can very efficiently not parse through
an entire graph information in order to
figure out if you need any of the data
from one into the other and who has what
so that's pretty cool
the tests for that are like eight to ten
times the size of the actual
implementation it's
unbelievable difficult thing to test for
so that's cool
that'll get murder spree soon and I'll
point people at it when it's in a
slightly better state right now there's
only an in-memory implementation I want
to finish up the implementation on s3
before I I consider it kind of
stabilized yeah it'll be interesting for
y'all to look at something that we've
talked about for a while and that's it
to me
mix what is rod so for me it's all about
Bitcoin this week understanding the
format and figuring out the cleanest way
to extract the blockchain into IP LD
blocks that we can store in a flat
flattened graph in car file form and
that it just fit feels like a rabbit
hole I expected this but there's a
rabbit hole here that of a nature I
didn't quite expect but you know this
raising interesting questions I'd like
to get clarity with the team about I am
aiming to do a PR that sometime this
week on on this to get discussion that
helps that would help me form an
approach here but this the the our
concept of of CID plus block it sort of
breaks down a bit when you get to these
block chains because of the way that
they conceived identifying blocks of
data and I'm wondering what the edges of
our concept is there and the fact that
we have one of our hashes is is double
char to 256 in in the multi hash
suggests that we have this flexibility
at the edges but how far does that go
for instance in in in a block chain
block there's some compounding examples
here that get more and more crazy as you
go on so you can push you can push this
fairly far you so either we have to
decide
the line or we say well it's it's really
flexible and you just sort of choose
your point along the continuum but then
that has implications back from multi
hash and multi codec and yeah so so with
Bitcoin you've got your a block is
actually a header plus transactions and
the the way that IP LD does right now is
says well a block a Bitcoin block in the
multicolored codec sense is the header
which is fine because the header you can
you can take that section of ninety
bytes or whatever it is and and you can
run double sha-256 which is multi-has
and you can derive a CID which is
basically the same kind of thing as the
identifier that they would use in the
Bitcoin world except that we present it
in this different way and they presented
it as a young a big-endian string
Hextall so but you can take one of their
their their identify as for a a block
and reverse it and stick a couple of
things in front of it to with for CID
and you can you can make it CID so you
can derive as the ID from there
identifies so that's really nice and
clean but that's not the entire block a
Bitcoin block also has the transactions
and the transactions are linked via the
merkel route of the transactions and and
so you have to go through this Merkle
tree process to get to the actual
transactions and in in go one of the
interesting approaches that somebody who
wrote the original library I think it
was either Jeremy or Stephen someone
because we have these two multi codecs
this Bitcoin block and Bitcoin TX so the
one of the interesting approaches in the
go library is that Bitcoin TX identifies
either a proper transaction section or
or a leaf in a miracle tree to get to
that transaction so there's this idea of
a maybe transaction you
passing this block and it's a maybe
transaction and the block could be
either a either two hashes put together
so 60 64 bytes or if it's longer than 64
bytes then it's an actual transaction so
so then you could have a CID and a block
for a transaction and that is either a
actual transaction or a part I walk on
the Merkel tree to get to a transaction
so you could then theoretically
decompose a Bitcoin block into a large
number of IP LD blocks with CR days and
that would be the header the
transactions and then all of the leaves
of the Merkel tree to get to the
transactions all right so that's
interesting so then that stretches the
idea of multi codec so Bitcoin TX
identifies two different types of things
which you can figure out if you have the
data and you know the length of it but
then it breaks down even further when
you get to the transactions because seg
Witte introduced this thing where you
two get to hash the transaction you
remove all of the witness signature
signature witness data from the
transactions so you pull them out and
then you you hash it as if they're not
there and and then that gives you the
hash of the transaction so you can't
then just take the raw binary data and
apply it double sha-256 and get an
identifier that's the same kind of
identifier as they use you either have
to follow their their rules which I
think will give you a there is another
path to get all the data properly hashed
but it involved it would probably
involve creating another Multi multi
codec at least another multi codec and
then adding additional IP LD blocks in
this tree in this weird-looking tree or
back to my original point of we stretch
the concept of what a hash is and and
potentially you could do something like
say well this block is hashed with
Bitcoin and that simply means that you
can take a block of data and derive a
hash from it that happens to include a
double shot 256 plus a Merkle tree plus
more double to our 256 s with this weird
sacred thing and that's just the hashing
algorithm is all of that stuff and it
can be derived from the data but it's
not a classic hasher algorithm in the
sense that's it not it's not a char to
it's a Bitcoin method of deriving a
clean hashable thing identifier from us
the section of data and then throw out
the Bitcoin TX multi codec and to say
this is just a Bitcoin block with
Bitcoin hashing that's one approach but
there's a bunch of other approaches you
could take to and it all it all goes
back to where is our where are the edges
of our flexibility around the idea of a
multi hash or a multi codec and what is
the CID Plus block meant to do together
well my question is like in their
addressing do they actually have like
all of these hashes or what they
consider an address to be so like this
is a better question that data that they
leave off when they hashed that block
data where is the pointer to that data
yeah yeah so I'm still that's the bit
that I'm working on right now because
that that has left me a bit bamboozled
but I think I mean they can't just like
yeah I know I know I know I know
but the whole point of it was that they
wanted to remove it from then the
standard hashing algorithm because
people were using it to do hacky things
with mining because they they had this
whole section of witness data that then
they could fiddle with to do more
efficient mining and it was then people
were inserting garbage data and stuff it
was just became a mess so the idea was
to remove that from the process but I
believe that there is a there is a
pointer to a
of all these things off no is appointed
to the root of a Merkle tree to all of
these things that is stored in a field
of the first transaction of a block I I
haven't figured out exactly how that
works because there's a bit of an
inception thing going on there but I
believe it's still part of an intact
tree so you could extend this Bitcoin
block Bitcoin TX and then have bitcoin
witness as another Majah colleague and
then you could still potentially link
them all together and do the the maybe
bitcoin witness thing and say the Merkle
tree has leaves that are also this thing
I think you could do that as well so so
my instinct here and I want to know what
Eric thinks - um my instinct is to like
not hack up the link at all including
the multi hash if they're not putting
this information in the link like if if
they're like if the data is linked in
some other way right somewhere else and
you can derive how to get there with
just the information from the header
then I don't see why we need to hack up
the link of any farther it's only if
they actually include some of this
information somewhere in that link or in
their header and that's how they that's
how the information gets replicated
around that we would need to hack up the
link somewhere and add another Oh buddy
hash like I know that it would make it
more usable if the header included like
a more sufficient link the length of
stuff but if this is like an
application-specific thing and how they
did thunder data structure and you just
have to know something about the
traversals in order to find the
information as long as like our parts of
the graph will grab all the data somehow
and you can always sort of like figure
it out if you know how that clean works
I don't I don't think that we should
extend it any farther but yeah I want to
know what Eric
that sounded about right to me
I don't know I'm not sure it's lower
there so we could
right now the both JavaScript and go
libraries will give you a clean mapping
of Bitcoin blocked CID to Bitcoin header
if you feed at the first 90 bytes so
slights you take a Bitcoin block and you
slice off the first 90 but succeeded in
you'll get a nice block to see id
mapping we could make it so that you
just feed in a whole block and it'll do
the same thing and just give you a
Bitcoin block plus CID and that's just
using the double share of the 1990
biased and then just say look you got
here from this if you know how to get
into a header then you'll be able to use
it to walk into the rest of this block
as long as you've got the rest of the
block in the data but right right now
we've already introduced this concept of
slicing off a header and and saying no
this is the block
it's the 90 bytes so we'd have to walk
that back and say no no we don't do any
slicing it's a tableau or not yeah no oh
yes absolutely we have to do that
we have to do what like I mean so like
if we're going to fit these into our
block storage mechanism there can't be
data in the block that is attached so
like run right I said we show the
revenue so the rest of that data would
have to be in the other Merkle tree
somewhere else that you'd have to go
look up yeah run but like it's hashed in
the sense that you have a link to it in
the Merkle route but then that that
really breaks down now IPL D ID is that
you know to another link but this just
all breaks like blegh this would break
and I get fast when they finish this
migration to multicast storage because
like for them like the the block is
stored in my multi hash and the multi
hash has to validate the block when it
comes out so if there's data on the
block it's so like you can't you can't
like have extra data on the block so we
would basically only store the header by
that CID and the other data would own
you would only be able to get it
some other lookup mechanism in another
tree so this is back to my point about
stretching the multi hash concept
because already we've done that by
introducing double sha to 256 which is a
that's not a stand and hashing algorithm
that's shard to 256 times two that we
introduced for block Bitcoin so already
we're saying all this there's a weird
hashing algorithm that you've got to do
here you can't just look it up in an all
hash table it has to be you have to go
and implement this somewhere else
because I don't think multi hashing or
any of those libraries influences
themselves so what they're the same
thing so the double 256 is just like
it's just apply its 2p6 applied twice to
the heaven yeah okay
well no I mean that's like a valid
passion function though like that that's
like agnostic but we could sort any data
out of that and get a hash right and and
we'd be good like I mean it would be a
silly thing to do but like you could do
it
theoretically I think that like where we
may have messed up is that
like that yeah we shouldn't be storing
block data isn't part of the hash right
like that that's where I think that we
made it no but but it is I totally see
your rods point of like I mean even if
we have the special Bitcoin function you
could also basic code it in a way that
you can put any data you want why not
yeah like it busy it takes the first 90
bytes and if a Plata is not long enough
you padded with zeros or something so it
would also be a hash that works with any
data you want to people but to people
can have different data and get the same
hash because they just added different
garbage Biglia that's the problem
yes yeah like that's that's not great
like that means I want to attack your
storage like send you a bunch of you
know valid headers with invalid data and
corrupted right yeah so with this this a
good thing
this sort of the curtain comes down when
you look in there go I peel the Bitcoin
code because it does a it to derive a
CID it first decodes the data and then
and then rebuilds it without the witness
data and then hashes that and today
we've got a transaction ID but you've
just discarded this witness data that
was on there to get you CID now I don't
know if that currently maps directly to
the transaction IDs that you would
expect from the Merkle tree but it
already in bitcoin go IPL d it's doing a
discard to do a hash it says okay let's
decode this thing the object that we
have now let's just put aside part of it
put it back together again and then hash
that so it contains it contains a hash
of all the data and it contains a hash
so no so so so he's my problem right now
okay I I've done that I've got a decode
in JavaScript I can decode an entire
Bitcoin block I've got it all comes out
all the pieces but then but then the I
you know I'm doing my tests have got
okay well this is the the structure in
Jason that the Bitcoin API tells me that
this block contains and this is the
structure that my code told me it tells
me it contains and then every fifth or
seventh transaction identifier is wrong
because they're the ones that contain
this separate witness data they're the
one they're the segment transactions
because the way that I've been able to
derive hashes just by simply saying
because my hashing algorithm is just so
it just says start chunk end chunk do
double char 256 over that section and
that should be the identifier and all of
them are wrong for the ones that contain
segwayed data so I need to it sorry
buddy I think and I hope this will have
to verify today and tomorrow
that if I was to do that but but
basically it decode the block and then
reconstructed without the witness data I
would get the same identifiers that
they're using and then I would pass but
then I'm not hashing the same thing
I'm not hashing the entire data I'm
putting a side part of it and saying no
we're not gonna hash that bit which is
what seg what it was all about that was
one of the reasons about is removing it
from the full hash algorithm but then
there's that question of well it's gonna
be linked somewhere yeah I agree it does
that's just weird to me that it wouldn't
be but basically they're they're
transaction IDs don't include part of
the data of the transaction yeah and I
need to think about where that did
actually well anyway that's that's
that's the that's the thing that is
plaguing has been plaguing me for days
now exactly how is this thing linked and
is it linked in a consistent way and if
it is does that mean we need to use
include another multi codec that gets
you to that and then are we okay with
some of these multi codecs actually
pointing to leaves of a Merkel tree and
then having these maybe decoders yeah
yeah I'll have to I'll think about this
some more I I know that I know that that
first part is wrong like we like I know
that like we cannot be storing blocks
that have data in the medicine hash it's
part of listen press like but that will
break a bunch of our stuff we need so
that's fine with the first the first any
Bitcoin block in their sense has to
decode into many blocks in the IPL
decent so that's what you're saying
there and we can't just store and week
we know right now we could just store
the header and we could make a stream of
hitters we've got all the code to do
that right now but then we're discarding
mass you know the mass expressive chunks
of the real data of transactions so we
have to yeah that with that yeah we just
need to figure out where somebody's link
to it linking to yeah and like what I
imagine is that like we'll probably have
to either add a codec or repurpose that
GX codec or something because like to
basically to have to basically point at
action visually a pointer that sorry I
blocked the points of the transaction
and to the other underlying data that
was part of hash what imagine but we'll
see somewhere on the chain that that
data is being referenced so we just
gotta figure out what ok well I'll um I
need to yield my time because I'm just
taking the most of it so Eric pretty
nice to have he's go so last week I
talked about having some fun issues in
selectors being too eager to explore
some forms of trees solving that problem
in general is probably going to be hard
but there's a little bit of a new code
this week so there's now a traversal
skinny value that can be handled and so
any user provides a link loader callback
to do some of the work in a multi-block
traversal one of the things I can do now
is just return the skinny token and it
does what it says on the tin it will
cause the traversal logic tests ok so
you can use this to implement
memoization by CID pretty trivially you
can use it to say skip evaluating this
subtree if I just don't have it myself
I've heard that some things like graphs
income might want this building the
correct application with that is gonna
be something that requires care but
whatever people can do it the library
features there now other than that I've
been doing a bunch of work on cochin and
it's like I mentioned last week I kind
of rebooted because the interface
changes were big enough that it was like
let's just start again and it's
continuing to go really really well so
struct Cochin has been implemented again
and in addition to that now
representations and tests for both the
type level and the representation level
interpretation of the struct and thus
covering iterations for both they
diverge by the way if you have a struct
that has let's say five fields and some
the nobles and both the iterator might
say it'll always say five type of level
iteration will tell you each of the
fields and I will tell you even if
they're absent explicitly and the
representation level iterator might say
it's only not three if two of the
optionals are absolutely right so all
that stuff is worth and that's test
coverage I think this is farther than
the previous generation kojic honestly
so the interfaces are really helping and
it was worth yeah also learned a couple
of new things about to go compiler again
that made this a lot easier it turns out
that a bunch of this I'm able to
implement it so it's using the same
memory to describe a bunch of these
types but I can cast the pointer types
in just such a way that I can decorate
them with different methods for the type
local representation versus the
representation representation and and so
that's just making the whole thing
really efficient in Iceland really
excited I'm coming up with some
interesting questions about how nobles
and optionals
work the way they're defined right now
is you can say nullable in list values
and in the values inside maps and
instruct fields and you can say optional
also instruct fields but not on the
other situations because if something
isn't in a map it's just there right
whereas in a struct it makes sense for
us to be able to explicitly say
something as absolute because we have a
finite number of known field names and
in a map you don't so so this is all
well and good and we ended up choosing
to do these things as special modifier
key words in the context to which
they're used and this also mostly works
but one situation I've been staring at a
lot lately
and wondering if it this is working the
way that we want is at the very root of
something if I
to unmarshal some serialized documents
and at the very root of it I want to
accept either like some hole struct or
not that's actually kind of hard to
express in the currents index because we
we did previously consider what's worth
mentioning having a syntax that says
like type food is the type name knowable
bar bar being some other title we
decided not to do that because it would
mean that you could write chains of
descriptions in which you would end up
implicitly when we solved it you would
have knowable knowable and that doesn't
make any sense we didn't want to make
that syntactically expressible so we
don't allow type definitions like that
but this makes it hard to put a null
Abul at the root of document if you
wanted to do that for some reason it's
good I don't know I'm rethinking this
one it turns out you can work around
because you can write a kind of Union
where null is one of the contents so for
as often as somebody games yeah so
powerful so this is a little verbose but
it works it can describe the correct
behavior and I think for as often as
some an end user wants to do this not
being a little verbose maybe that's
actually desirable that's kind of it's
about right but if we wanted to express
allowing a whole document or absent I
don't know how to express that it's in
the card system and so that's just kind
of keeping me up at night at the moment
and I don't really know what to do about
that I don't know if anyone else is
gonna have any thoughts on that and I
will push for them now because it's kind
of good it gets weirder the longer you
look at it this is only the case of the
root the root of a schema where you can
notice is that you saying yeah yeah
yeah than the most it follows from the
fact that you can't really implicitly
whenever you're handing some information
to a nun marshal function you're handing
it something that has its identified by
a tightening and there's no way to have
a named type that has one of the
optional inaudible properties on it and
there are other reasons that we decided
that's good but for this one particular
application it's like mmm it's optional
useful at the rent level maybe so I'm
just thinking for example if I wanted to
use this to I'm writing some application
and I'm doing config file loading people
right empty config files and I want to
deal with that it's certainly possible
to load enough features onto like the
different kinds of error types that so
maybe we could just say that this is you
get an error and to document and that's
just a special arrow type that exists
maybe that's fine so so which is your
preference that in that case you would
want to be able to have a way to be able
to express a default configuration from
a schema when none was specified
so using optionals to be able to derive
a default for pretty much everything in
that document probably more like the
implicit feature if so wait it'll
implicit you know right yeah although no
because implicit about encoding optional
is more no you know that's that seems
like it's pushing into application
little concerns
so it does seem like more just having a
signal that not is nothing specified
should be enough to push that back up
into the application to say ok will that
invoke some special logic about what
that means yeah I think I think it's
something that definitely can be solved
by pushing this information the air cuz
I'm just wobbling on whether or not
that's desirable because it it makes me
a little touchy because I sort of have I
have a decent amount of fear around the
air handling right around like yo F
errors it seems to me like those are
just a pernicious sources bugs
and I wonder if we're producing one of
those bug factories by not treating this
case maybe it's fine and it's the nature
of the beast but I'm a little not super
confident or comfortable in it well
maybe that is the best way to handle I
don't know it's something we're on the
slow cooker come up with ideas that seem
especially good you haven't you have an
issue about this do not don't you that
unearthing I think ice or an issue I
think posted to a couple of people cuz
it's not really well formatted it's just
my brain I should clean it up and post
it somewhere more discussable I have a
question back to yours suspected
traversal stuff why
can you explain what are the use cases
we're handling memorization in the link
loader is gonna be been more beneficial
than just handling it in the selected
traversal engine it's not but it's not
going to be worse that's the strongest
defense because if I understand that
that particular that memorization was
really the problem that you and
and Reba were circling around with these
inefficient news cases isn't it yes and
had it doesn't matter how this solves
them because it just seems like you're
pushing it to a separate level that's
that's but you're doing the same thing
yes absolutely
so the correctness of memoization is
trickier than it looks at first ones you
can't just do memoization by cid for all
selectors and run yeah because some you
need to go back into in a different way
and look for different things
yeah right okay so some algorithms you
might know you as the algorithm officer
that that's not gonna be a problem and
then you can sue them no more ice by CID
and get on with it and that's fine so
this feature is basically gonna let
somebody to do that if that's the
situation that they know that they're in
and I watch them do it today because I
don't think I can finish implementing
fancy high-powered version of
mineralization by CID + selection
sub-clause I certainly can and connected
in alright that's uncanny okay so this
is just a mechanism for you to say all
that stuff no problem in this use case
just get on with it yeah and so someone
did tell me from grassing like
apparently it would sometimes be nice to
say skip this sub-tree like I don't have
it if I have to give you an IO reader
the thing is gonna say yo f and that's
going to call the traversal abruptly and
what I actually want to do is continue
somewhere else so it also makes that so
Michael a little I would love to get the
speaker fancy memorized by tuple of CA
and selector sub-clause but that also is
unfortunately non-trivial because some
selectors sub-clauses you need to sort
of smash out some of the details like on
recursive you don't want that recursion
depth counter decrement fields in there
because that's of course kind of break
gate you know but what if that field is
going to count down to zero somewhere
mid block now you do need it to be
correct
it's wow it's just yeah it's touch here
that is pleasing
what does it currently do now there's no
memorization or like it just doesn't lie
Eve walk okay and that's why this came
up because there was some obvious cases
where it was just spending way too much
time yeah okay the interesting exactly
so so now if you know you can use a
simple optimization to do the thing I'm
wondering how this is gonna this might
stick around even and I'm not sure
because even when we do the advanced
memorize by CI D plus carefully massage
and whitelisted sub-clause of selector
there's no way that's going to be free
right I don't know what what Richter
scale of costs that's going to be but it
might very well be that if you know you
don't need that memoization you might
not want it either so some sort of a
catch for how to do this is gonna
actually figured out at some point
so yeah this is the very minimum viable
thing that lets somebody pumped on it if
they've got what the cases more clear
Tiaras welcome you just an extra
follow-up apparently we had the first
one to attend into this just in South
Island they just plowed through that
somehow and moved on
in Finland they encountered this problem
in one other case and wrote it
they wrote a different selector that
didn't encounter that case yeah anyway
that's those were all the things I did
this week
yeah so I actually have an edge in I
didn't that might be brought up it also
fits pretty well if we should extend the
time slot to from half an hour to one
hour and what I would suggest is because
like to me but it doesn't matter because
I I surely won't have any meetings
afterwards um but like what about
basically extending it to like
officially to one hour but trying to
still keep it to half an hour
which would be because I am I get like
super tired and it's 11:45 and but
basically busy so basic that people like
Michael have it blocked so it feels like
it's in the bill office day so is he
extended officially but try to keep it
strong if that's seems yeah sorry about
that yeah that's a good point but mine's
just moved this week this week I'm just
moved back an hour but still it's not
it's it's seven o'clock for me but I had
this fear when doubts having 6:00 a.m.
meetings again but then I remembered
that we pin to UTC because when I was
doing meetings with US people regularly
we would have two hour shift so I end up
at 6:00 a.m. of regularly and that sucks
so yeah so so I will so I would take
care of like getting all that like yeah
all the places where it is mentioned
cool yeah all right um is there anything
else
people might have then i/o about next
week I will be off so I guess you still
me don't money place you will manage to
do it without me I guess does someone
have first access I presume my shoulders
yes Michael should i do have no idea how
to do the line cool me
like that's anyone yeah so I I stopped
the meeting because fully not
interesting for anyone else how are we
making this really run so I will say
goodbye and then we discuss it
afterwards okay goodbye everyone